# [Problem link](https://www.codechef.com/problems/P7149)

## PREREQUISITES:

[Stars and bars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stars_and_bars_(combinatorics))

## PROBLEM:

Count the number of arrays $D$ of length $N$ such that:

1. $D_1 + D_2 + \dots + D_N = 2N$
2. There exists a simple connected bipartite graph $G$ on $N$ vertices that has $D$ as its degree sequence.

## EXPLANATION:

The sum of degrees of all vertices in a graph is exactly twice the number of edges - after all, each edge increases the degree of exactly two vertices.

Since we want $D$ to be the degree sequence of a graph, and $D$ is to have a sum of $2N$, the graph $G$ we're considering should have exactly $N$ edges.  
The only simple and connected graphs with $N$ vertices and $N$ edges, are those obtained by taking a tree and adding a single edge to it.  
An alternate way of looking at such a graph, is a single cycle with trees hanging off of each of its vertices.

We also want the graph to be bipartite, so the single cycle that exists should be of even size (and also have $\geq 4$ vertices, otherwise it wouldn’t be simple).

---

Now, note that we want to count degree sequences, and not graphs.  
This distinction is important, because multiple graphs can have the same degree sequence.

So, let’s fix an array $D$ whose elements are $\geq 1$ and sum is $2N$, and see when we can create a valid graph.

First, note that any vertices that lie on a cycle must have a degree that’s $\geq 2$.  
So, since we want a cycle that’s of size $\geq 4$, we definitely want at least 4 vertices whose degree is $\geq 2$.

Let $k$ denote the number of vertices with degree 2, and suppose $k \geq 4$.  
As it turns out, this condition is nearly sufficient for a graph to exist!  
Specifically:

- If $k$ is even, a valid graph always exists.
- If $k$ is odd, a valid graph doesn’t exist if and only if $k = N$.

So, we take almost any array $D$ with a sum of $2N$: only a small handful of them are ‘bad’.

The total number of arrays of positive integers whose length is $N$ and sum is $2N$ is 

$$
\binom{2N-1}{N-1},
$$

calculated using [stars and bars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stars_and_bars_(combinatorics)).

From this, we subtract ‘bad’ arrays, which are the ones with $k \leq 3$ elements that are $\geq 2$.

For a fixed $k$,

1. Fix which elements are $\geq 2$ in $\binom{N}{k}$ ways.
2. All the other $(N - k)$ elements are 1, so the sum of these $k$ elements should be exactly $2N - (N - k) = N + k$.
3. The number of ways to have $k$ elements that are $\geq 2$ sum to $N + k$ is 

$$
\binom{N-1}{k-1},
$$

again as a result of stars-and-bars (to bring it to the necessary form, subtract 1 from each of the $k$ elements, and also subtract $k$ from the target sum).

When $N$ is odd (and $> 3$), we also subtract a further 1: since $k = N$ isn’t allowed there, and there’s exactly one array with that.

So, the final answer is 

$$
\binom{2N-1}{N-1} - [N > 3] \cdot (N \bmod 2) - \sum_{k=0}^{3} \binom{N}{k} \binom{N-1}{k-1}.
$$

This can be computed in constant time with precomputed factorials and inverse factorials.

**TIME COMPLEXITY:**

$O(1)$ per testcase.

## CODE
```python
mod = 10**9 + 7
maxn = 2 * 10**6
fac = [1] * maxn
for i in range(1, maxn): fac[i] = fac[i-1] * i % mod
inv = fac[:]
inv[-1] = pow(fac[-1], mod-2, mod)
for i in reversed(range(maxn-1)): inv[i] = inv[i+1] * (i+1) % mod

def C(n, r):
    if n < r or r < 0: return 0
    return fac[n] * inv[r] % mod * inv[n-r] % mod

for _ in range(int(input())):
    n = int(input())
    n -= 1
    ans = C(2*n, n) + C(2*n, n-1)
    n += 1
    for k in range(n-3, n+1):
        ans -= C(n, k) * C(n-1, k)
    if n%2 == 1 and n > 3: ans -= 1
    print(ans%mod)
```
